#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine biblatex
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblatex_bibstyle authoryear
\biblatex_citestyle authoryear
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 1in
\topmargin 1in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Quantum feedback
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Christian Lange
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Coherent control with quantum feedback 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Ion trap
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We have an ion in unknown state 
\begin_inset Formula $\left|\psi\right\rangle $
\end_inset

 that we would like to control.
 The vibrational mode is in 
\begin_inset Formula $\left|0\right\rangle _{m}$
\end_inset

.
 A second 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

controller
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 ion is prepared in the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

target
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 state 
\begin_inset Formula $\left|\varphi\right\rangle _{c}=\gamma\left|\uparrow\right\rangle _{c}+\delta\left|\downarrow\right\rangle _{c}$
\end_inset

.
 We have a joint system 
\begin_inset Formula 
\begin{equation}
\left|\psi\right\rangle \otimes\left|0\right\rangle _{m}\otimes\left|\varphi\right\rangle _{c}.
\end{equation}

\end_inset

The ion can now be controlled to its ground state using coherent quantum
 feedback.
 First focus light on the system ion and drive a spin-selected 
\begin_inset Formula $\pi$
\end_inset

 pulse.
 This pulse takes 
\begin_inset Formula $\left|\uparrow\right\rangle \otimes\left|0\right\rangle _{m}$
\end_inset

 to 
\begin_inset Formula $-i\left|\downarrow\right\rangle \otimes\left|1\right\rangle _{m}$
\end_inset

 and vice versa while leaving 
\begin_inset Formula $\left|\downarrow\right\rangle \otimes\left|0\right\rangle $
\end_inset

 unchanged.
 Let 
\begin_inset Formula $\left|\psi\right\rangle =\alpha\left|\uparrow\right\rangle +\beta\left|\downarrow\right\rangle $
\end_inset

.
 Then 
\begin_inset Formula 
\begin{align}
\left|\psi\right\rangle \otimes\left|0\right\rangle _{m}\otimes\left|\varphi\right\rangle _{c} & =\left(\alpha\left|\uparrow\right\rangle \otimes\left|0\right\rangle _{m}+\beta\left|\downarrow\right\rangle \otimes\left|0\right\rangle _{m}\right)\otimes\left|\varphi\right\rangle _{c}\\
 & \rightarrow\left[\alpha\left(-i\left|\downarrow\right\rangle \otimes\left|1\right\rangle _{m}\right)+\beta\left|\downarrow\right\rangle \otimes\left|0\right\rangle _{m}\right]\otimes\left|\varphi\right\rangle _{c}\\
 & \rightarrow\left|\downarrow\right\rangle \otimes\left[-i\alpha\left|1\right\rangle _{m}+\beta\left|0\right\rangle _{m}\right]\otimes\left|\varphi\right\rangle _{c}
\end{align}

\end_inset

Now apply the same procedure to the control ion.
 
\begin_inset Formula 
\begin{equation}
\gamma\left|\uparrow\right\rangle _{c}\otimes\left|0\right\rangle _{c}+\delta\left|\downarrow\right\rangle _{c}\otimes\left|0\right\rangle _{c}\rightarrow\left|\downarrow\right\rangle _{c}\otimes\left(-i\gamma\left|1\right\rangle _{c}+\delta\left|0\right\rangle _{c}\right)
\end{equation}

\end_inset

Or is it rather 
\begin_inset Formula 
\begin{align}
\left(-i\alpha\left|1\right\rangle _{m}+\beta\left|0\right\rangle _{m}\right)\otimes\left(\gamma\left|\uparrow\right\rangle _{c}+\delta\left|\downarrow\right\rangle _{c}\right) & =-i\alpha\gamma\left|\uparrow\right\rangle _{c}\otimes\left|1\right\rangle _{m}+\beta\delta\left|\downarrow\right\rangle _{c}\otimes\left|0\right\rangle _{m}\\
 & \qquad-i\alpha\delta\left|1\right\rangle _{m}\otimes\left|\downarrow\right\rangle _{c}+\beta\gamma\left|\uparrow\right\rangle _{c}\otimes\left|0\right\rangle _{m}\\
 & \rightarrow\left|\downarrow\right\rangle _{c}\otimes\left|0\right\rangle _{m}\left(\alpha\gamma+\beta\delta\right)\\
 & \qquad\left|\downarrow\right\rangle _{c}\otimes\left|1\right\rangle _{m}\left(-i\alpha\delta-i\beta\gamma\right)
\end{align}

\end_inset

I'm confused.
 Let's try the next example.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
